Cleaned_Ans
"Types of statistics Descriptive Statistics This usually summarizes the data from the sample by making use of an index like mean or standard deviation,The methods which are used in the descriptive statistics are displaying, organizing, and describing the data Inferential Statistics These conclude from data that are subject to random variations like observation mistakes and other sample variations."
Statistics are usually used in many different kinds of research fields The lists of files in which statistics are used are Science Technology Biology Computer Science Chemistry Business It is also used in the following areas Providing comparison Explaining action which has already occurred Predicting the future result Estimation of quantities that are not known Data Science Training Using R and Python Detailed Coverage Best in class Content Prepared by Industry leaders Latest Technology Covered.
"Data Science is a science that is led by data It includes the interdisciplinary fields of scientific methods, algorithms, and even the process for extracting insights from the data The data can be either structured or unstructured There are many similarities between data science and data mining as both useful abstract information from the data Now, data science also includes mathematical statistics and computer science and its applications It is by the combination of statistics, visualization, and applied mathematics and computer science that data science can convert a vast amount of data into insights and knowledge Thus, statistics from the main part of data science it is a branch of mathematical commerce with the collection, analysis, interpretation, organization, and presentation of data."
"Both correlation and covariance are basically two concepts of mathematics that are widely used in statistics They not only help in establishing the relations between two random variables but also help in measuring the dependency between the two Although the work between these two mathematical terms is similar, they are quite different from each other Correlation It is considered as the best technique for measurement and also for estimation of the quantitative relationship between the two variables Correlation measures how efficiently two variables are related Covariance In this, two terms vary together, and it is a measure that shows the extent to which two random variables can change in a cycle."
"It forms a statistical relationship between a pair of random variables, where any change in one variable reciprocates by a corresponding change in another variable."
Bayesian rests on the data which is observed in reality and further considers the probability distribution on the hypothesis.
The probability of some of the observed outcomes under specific parameter values is regarded as the likelihood of the set of parameter values under certain observed outcomes.
"In terms of statistical significance testing, the p value represents the probability of obtaining a test value, which is as extreme as the one which had been observed originally The underlying condition is that the null hypothesis is true."
"Let us suppose the experimental results showing the coin turning heads 14 in 20 flips in total Here is what is derived Null hypothesis Ho a fair coin Observation 0 14 heads out of 20 flips P value of observation 0 given HO Prob 14 heads or 14 tails 0.115 We can see above that the p value overshoots the value of 0.05, so the observation is in line with the null hypothesis that means the observed result of 14 heads in 20 flips can be related to the chance alone as it comes within the range of what would happen 95 of the time is this was a real case In the example, we failed to reject the null hypothesis at the level of 5 The coin did not have an even fall and the shift from the expected outcome is slight to be reported as not statistically significant at 5 level ."
Sampling is considered as part of the statistical practice which is concerned with the selection of an unbiased or random subset of single observations in a population of individuals which are directed to yield some knowledge about the population of concern.
Sampling can be done in 4 broad methods Randomly or in a simple yet random method Systematically or taking every kth member of the population Cluster when the population is considered in groups or clusters Stratified i.e.
"when the exclusive groups or strata, a sample from a group samplings."
"The mode is defined as that element of the data sample, which appears most often in the collection X 1 5 5 6 3 2 Mode x return 5, happen most."
"Median is often described as that numerical value that separates the higher half of the sample, which can be either a group or a population or even a probability distribution from the lower half The median can usually be found by a limited list of numbers when all the observations are arranged from the lowest to the highest value and picking the middle one."
"Skewness is described as the data asymmetry, which is centered around a mean If skewness is negative, the data is spread more on the left of the mean to the right If skewness is seen as positive, then the data is moving more to the right."
"Covariance is a measure of how two variables move in sync with each other y 2 1 3 4 5 6 7 8 cov x,y2 return 2 2 matrix, diagonal represents variance."
"The probability of rejection of the null hypothesis when it is known as the significance level a, and very common choices are 0.05 and 0.01."
A hash table refers to a data structure that is used for implementation in an associative way in a structure that can map keys to values A hash table makes use of a hash function for computing an index into an array of buckets or slots from which the correct value can be obtained.
"In the wide format, the repeated responses of the subject will fall in a single row, and each response will go in a separate column In the long format, every row makes a one time point per subject The data in the wide format can be recognized by the fact that the columns are basically represented by the groups."
"Data is usually distributed in many ways which incline to left or right There are high chances that data is focussed around a middle value without any particular inclination to the left or the right It further reaches the normal distribution and forms a bell shaped curve The normal distribution has the following properties Unimodal or one mode Both the left and right halves are symmetrical and are mirror images of each other It is bell shaped with a maximum height at the center Mean, mode, and even the median are all present at the center Asymptotic."
A B testing refers to a statistical hypothesis with two variables A and B The primary goal of A B testing is the identification of any changes to the web page for maximizing or increasing the outcome of interest A B testing is a fantastic method for finding the most suitable online promotional and marketing strategies for the business It is basically used for testing everything from website copy to even the emails made for sales and also search ads.
"The statistical power of sensitivity refers to the validation of the accuracy of a classifier, which can be Logistic, SVM, Random Forest, Sensitivity is basically Predicted True Events Total Events True events are the ones that are true and also predicted as true by the model."
"In both statistics and machine learning, fitting the model to a set of training data to be able to make increased reliable predictions on general untrained data is a common task In the case of overfitting, random errors or noise is described by a statistical model instead of an underlying relationship In the case of overfitting, the model is highly complex, like having too many parameters which are relative to many observations The overfit model has a poor predictive performance, and it overreacts to many minor fluctuations in the training data In the case of underfitting, the underlying trend of the data cannot be captured by the statistical model or even the machine learning algorithm Even such a model has poor predictive performance."
"In both statistics and machine learning, fitting the model to a set of training data to be able to make increased reliable predictions on general untrained data is a common task."
"In the case of overfitting, random errors or noise is described by a statistical model instead of an underlying relationship."
"In the case of overfitting, the model is highly complex, like having too many parameters which are relative to many observations."
"The overfit model has a poor predictive performance, and it overreacts to many minor fluctuations in the training data."
"In the case of underfitting, the underlying trend of the data cannot be captured by the statistical model or even the machine learning algorithm."
Even such a model has poor predictive performance.
"Statistics have widespread applications everywhere It has been used in many applications like biology, meteorology, demography, economics, and mathematics Economic planning is not possible without statistics."
The central limit theorem states that the normal distribution is arrived at when the sample size varies without having an effect on the shape of the population distribution This central limit theorem is key because it is widely used in performing hypothesis testing and also used to calculate the confidence intervals accurately.
A normal distribution can be called a bell curve distribution It gets its name from the bell curve shape that we get when we visualize the distribution.
Box plots allow us to provide a graphical representation of the 5 number summary and can also be used to compare groups of histograms

"Normalization is a technique often applied as part of data preparation for machine learning The goal of normalization is to change the values of numeric columns in the dataset to a common scale, without distorting differences in the ranges of values."

"mean is the simple mathematical average of a set of two or more numbers."